# Bank_TermDeposit_Telemarketing_CustomerSubscriptionPrediction

Customer outreach is a critical component for the future development, expansion and long-term success of a business. In the financial services industry, if banks were able to foresee the impact of their marketing campaigns, they could gain valuable insight into optimizing their customer targeting strategies. Based on the dataset about a Portuguese bank's telemarketing campaign, we analyze phone calls to customers in order to predict whether the customer would subscribe to the term deposit following the call. Through data mining, we can increase the effectiveness of customer outreach approaches, such as optimizing the timing, frequency and channels of outreach for different types of customers, and pursue future calls that will more likely lead to a subscription of the term deposit.

Our dataset ("Bank Marketing") comes from the UCI Machine Learning Depository: https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Bank+Marketing, based on the main file “bank-additional-full.csv.” In this dataset, we have 41188 observations, and 21 variables: 1 target variable (binary: "yes"/"no") and 20 features (10 numeric, 10 categorical). The features mainly cover 4 main aspects of information: potential customer characteristics; current campaign data; historical campaign data; socio-economic factors.

Based on our business understanding and data exploration, we tackled main issues in the data, including data imbalance (based on target variable) and data leakage. During the data wrangling process, we also removed uninformative features, dealt with missing values, encoded categorical variables, and transformed numeric variables on top of their distributions. We ran three rounds of training and evaluation on logistic regression, decision tree, and kNN models. We finally selected the optimized decision tree model through parameter tuning and cross-validation, which achieved the best balance between overfitting and underfitting and had the best performance according to F1 score (0.9124) (we also looked at other metrics such as accuracy, precision and recall, and took them into consideration). We got an expected profit of ~$12 per call with cost-benefit calculation. We further thought about potential risk in the model deployment stage, such as data privacy issue and drift of predictive results in a different context.


